Title: 1 Idiot

David was walking down the street. 

He isn’t sure exactly what that meant, or how meaning had anything to do with it. But that’s what he was doing, and it’s what he’d tell people he was doing, if they asked, though they probably wouldn’t expect that response so he probably wouldn’t actually say that. In fact, he isn’t sure why this inner dialogue would enter and entertain his forward locomoting brain. Either way, he let it get a hold of him. Perhaps he let the idea of it getting a hold of him get a hold of him. It’s probably a pathology, being stuck on a low-level thought, and deciding to stay there. Nobody would suggest he stay there, but he was not a piano key, and he felt the need to prove that to himself. This mildly neurotic listlessness probably started when he was 14 and had realised that he couldn’t stop time.

At this point, whatever this was that his brain was doing became so dull that he began to look at the colours surrounding (and at times flanking and ambushing) him. He also noticed
shapes, reflections, patterns, and he noticed that he noticed them; whatever that meant. He also noticed people, and their faces, and their entire existence distilled into a sub-second image. An image that was only the roughest of outlines and more filled-in by him than expressed by them. Unless, of course, they were attractive, because then he’d leave the filling-in to them. Lucky bastards.

He knew this mental landscape was bizarre and maybe borderline pathological (and that’s what scared him) so he tried to find comfort in concretely outlining what he was doing. As if he didn’t already know. As if every behaviour wasn’t a node in a half-hierarchical web. He did not find comfort in rebuking himself for being an idiot. But still, his inability to discard irrelevant thoughts and think (or do) something productive instead made him so dejected that he wanted to cry and bang his head into the nearest wall; ideally a smooth wall so that it wouldn’t hurt but God would still get the message.

He took out his keys, stood still and stared at them for a second, realised he couldn’t tap into his office with his keys, put them back, and took out his keycard. “Hopefully no one attractive saw that.”, he thought.

God saw it.

-

Title: 2 Art

Art is a difficult thing to articulate.

David was not an artist. In fact, David didn't like artists because he thought they were vampires because vampires are often enthusiastic about art and aesthetics. But most people know that vampires are actually posers in the art world. 

Posers are those people who try to be artists but aren't because they believe more in themselves than The Lord. 

Another way to spot a poser is by their distasteful habit of saying something almost deep but then immediately following it by some kitschy and stupid remark that suggests that neither they nor their compatriots know how to integrate the almost deep thing into the rest of their lives.

David was not an artist or a poser, he was just mediocre and sometimes that made him want to cry. Whether or not he cried, he still wasn't entirely sure of what to do in light of his limitations. At least he was human.

-

Title: 3 Train 

Eating a sandwich on a half busy tube is a pretty strange experience. David had a coffee, the most acceptable food item on a train. How could you possibly be a pariah if you're participating in the social game by buying a coffee? 

Unfortunately, there's a sort of dinge the tube puts on all recent purchases within it's walls, like they're the vain vestiges of a better time. In this sense, David felt like an aristocrat, and touched his neck.

But at the same time he knew no one there cared about him because, rather than a unified community, the tube is a collection of individuals, like an archipelago. 

-

Title: 4 Photo

Seeing people take pictures has a profound impact on David. A picture is a distillation of an experience into one aesthetic. It's an answer to the implicit anxiety of events, because it says what an event is, at least visually, dispelling ambiguity. 

David thinks people cannot absorb the aesthetics of their environment via the osmosis of selfies (or any other means), and just look vain when they try. People who find their place in the aesthetic of an environment may be photographed. Candids are best. Maybe that's why Jesus never wrote anything down. The author is suddenly feeling self-conscious.

-

Title: 5 Cain

Imagine a hammer, head scratched, speckled with micro fragments of scrapped metal, repeatedly pulverizing a head into the floor. Now look at the moment just before when the cold, speckled metal makes that first, final, and crisp contact with one's temple.  Add to that the audio of metal scraping on metal, and the pain of chipped teeth scraping on metal. 

That was David's anxiety. That was the hatred he sometimes felt for the world. A hatred that would stick in his throat and darken his countenance. 

This feeling is often a sign of sugar withdrawal. 

-

Title: 6 Books

Books are a pointer to thought. But thought is elusive and comes from something like divine inspiration. Is the archetype of the well-read individual a precursor to the prophet? 

-

Title: 7 The Second Sex

David doesn't last very long. 

But in his brave pursuit of egalitarianism he's determined to ensure she finishes. He's found 3 methods so far. The first is oral. The second is oral, then sex. The third, and riskiest, is only sex.  Either way, David noticed that sex is split into her part, then his part. 

-

Title: 8 Suicide

Those who kill themselves to alleviate their suffering have an implicit belief in an afterlife.

As we have no testimony from dead people, we cannot say how our suffering changes after death. 

-

Title: 9 Dive

David couldn’t sleep. Soul still stirring like TV static. He thought going to a dive bar might be good. Drink. Drink constantly. Have nothing. No one. Be empty. Be clean. Be pure. Wasn’t Jesus also remarkably alone?

-

Title: 10 Darkness

David knew he had some darkness in him, and felt he could overcome it with joy, but sometimes he got scared and looked for more immediate satisfaction. 'Is worldly pleasure just a store against darkness?', he thought, and wondered how many people made their money by spreading darkness. Then he considered 'worldly pleasure' poorly defined, and stopped thinking, and still felt the darkness.

-

Title: 11 Friendship

David does not understand friendship. He understands acquaintanceship as repeatable, and somewhat transactional, interaction.

Google says it’s mutual affection that isn't sexual or familial (or both). The only difficulty here is measuring affection. David spends time with people he feels affection for, but he couldn't prove they're alive, let alone feel affection for him.